---
label: Tokenomics
layout: default
order: 2001
---

# Token Economy
---
## Governance
---

### Design

Arc76 is designed as a DAO that is managed by 4 or more stakeholder DAOs. The DAO controls the entry point to the universe; implemented as a smart contract that manages ownership of all sectors in the game and manages voting rights accordingly.

* The stakeholders of the DAO are the managers of l1 sectors. 
* The DAO owns The Brand, The Universe, and all surrounding it.
* Managers of sectors are provided with the rights to use and expand on the assets owned by the DAO.

### Distribution

As the contract is deployed the core tile (tile zero) at l1 is minted and assigned to the core team. For every other tile that is minted, tile zero is auto-minted and assigned to the core team as well.

If all l3 tiles of the core tile are minted in the first 14 days, the team will open three more l1 tiles around the core tile and claim ownership of them as well. The remaining l3 tiles will stay locked unless all l3 tiles are sold within two weeks after minting starts.

If this milestone is reached, the last three lvl1 tiles are minted and an extra 14 days is added to the initial 14-day minting window.

          
| Layer |  Core Team |      % |     Community |     % |         Total |  { class="compact" }
|:------| ----------:| ------:| -------------:| -----:| -------------:|
| l1    |          7 | 100.00 |             0 |  0.00 |             7 |
| l2    |          7 |   5.26 |           126 | 94.74 |           133 |
| l3    |        133 |   2.70 |         4.788 | 97.30 |         4.921 |
| l4    |      4.921 |   1.64 |       295.260 | 98.36 |       300.181 |
| l5    |    300.181 |   1.10 |    27.016.290 | 98.90 |    27.316.471 |
| l6    | 27.316.471 |   0.79 | 3.441.875.346 | 99.21 | 3.469.191.817 |

*Take Note:*
* The core team also manages the DAO until Act 4 starts and can utilize those funds as needed.
* The funds in l1 DAO are available to both team and community projects, voted on by l2 holders.

---
## Incentives
---
### Services

##### Player Guilds

At l4 nodes are intended to support small communities. Guilds receive a part of the revenue generated by player interactions within the sphere of influence of the nodes they own. 

The funding provides managers the means to attract new players and grow. Or to organize events to keep current players active.

##### Content Creation

Events at l5 are designed as tokens that execute logic and/or represent assets within the game. Registered nodes can sell these tokens to creators that wish to publish content or use it to make some content of their own.

By publishing content for the game, creators of the content can rent or sell access to regional or local hubs. The creators also receive 2 percent perpetual royalties on token rent or sales.

##### Infrastructure Provider

As with any online game, infrastructure is needed. The l1 tokens in coordination with l2 and creators will take on this role. Every l1 token can register a service node that will act as a game master, content host, and API Entry Point for the network.

During most of season one, the core team will be managing these nodes. When Act 4 commences and the community settles in these nodes will be sold in an auction to the community where l2 nodes vote to approve open bids. (All but The Core, sector zero)

### Mint Fees

When people can start claiming their part of the space by minting the sector tokens they become the manager of the DAO that governs that part of space. Managers can set the price, and the minting rights of tiles in the sector using a whitelist.

The table below lists the token count per layer and the target price. Example: owner of an l3 tile has paid 3.5N and can sell 36 l4 tiles for 2.1N. If the owner follows target pricing and sells two of the tiles they break even.

Every layer has an extra row of tiles added to the hex but all hexes have a target value of 126 NEAR. At higher layers, there is less supply but a higher base price, at lower layers this gets reversed.

| Layer | Tokens | Price | Total |
|:----- | ------:| -----:|------:|
| l2    |     18 |  7.00 | 126.0 |
| l3    |     36 |  3.50 | 126.0 |
| l4    |     60 |  2.10 | 126.0 |
| l5    |     90 |  1.40 | 126.0 |
| l6    |    126 |  1.00 | 126.0 |

*Payout:*
* 70% is split between community DAOs that own the sector.
* 30% goes to the DAOs managed by teams behind the project.

*On Mint:*
* The manager of a sector has the option to manage a whitelist and limit sales to friends.
* Prices above are the base set by the core team; the managers of sectors can increase these prices.

*Take Note:*
* Layer 5 are Events for creators; the revenue on these provide long-term returns based on gameplay.
* Layer 6 credits, not intended to be sold but available within a sector to be harvested and used.

### Royalty Fees

Royalties are fees deducted from the final sales price on internal and open markets. The royalty is paid out by the seller to the layers above them as compensation for provided assets and services as agreed on in the contracts that manage token transfers. 

The royalty fees and related payouts follow the table below.

| Layer |   Type | Royalty | Payouts | Teams | { class="compact" }
|:----- | ------:| -------:| -------:| -----:|
| l1    | Sector |       0 |       1 |     0 |
| l2    | Sector |       2 |       1 |     1 |
| l3    | Sector |       4 |       2 |     2 |
| l4    | Node   |       6 |       2 |     2 |
| l5    | Event  |       8 |       - |     * |
| l6    | Energy |       - |       - |     - |

*Royalty:*
* 50%-70% is paid out to community DAOs that own the sector.
* 30%-50% goes to the DAOs managed by teams behind the project.
* Events are paid out to the community DAOs, with 2% to the creator.

*Take Note:*
* The l1 tiles are owned by the core team; until they get sold in a private auction.
* Events can be hired or bought by nodes and regions to be employed in random encounter lists.
* Events and Energy are consumable resources where ownership expires or runs out, stacking has negative effects.
* Events and Energy can be traded within the game but not on the open markets as they are dynamic and decay in value.
